Bring your own Schemas and Schemaspaces (#2109)
elyra-ai/elyra: docs/source/developer_guide/metadata.md

As previously mentioned, the metadata service has a pluggable storage mechanism.  By default, metadata instances are stored within the file system.  However, alternative storage mechanisms can be configured for, say, NoSQL DB or traditional, table-oriented, databases.

Schemaspaces and their schemas can be dynamically introduced via entrypoints.  When the system starts, it will identify applicable entrypoints and load their corresponding objects to seed the list of _configured_ schemaspaces and schemas.

### Metadata Components
The Elyra metadata service is composed of several components, many of which were previously referenced, and each responsible for a different task.  
![MetadataServiceRelationships](../images/metadata-service-relationships.png)

The following briefly describes each of those components.

> - **[Schemaspace](https://github.com/karlaspuldaro/elyra/blob/d345dbd415cbdb16c8d46f705bcd1b3b6ed54450/elyra/metadata/schema.py#L199)**: This is the top-most component and represents a _container_ of schemas.  It has `id` (UUID), `name` (symbolic name), `display_name` (descriptive name), and `description` properties, along with a set of schemas.  Instances of a schemaspace's schemas are logically grouped together in whatever storage model is in use.  Schemaspaces are discovered and loaded via entrypoints.

Reviewer: If you perform a global replace of 
```
https://github.com/karlaspuldaro/elyra/blob/d345dbd415cbdb16c8d46f705bcd1b3b6ed54450/elyra/metadata/
```
with
```
https://github.com/elyra-ai/elyra/blob/master/elyra/metadata/
```

this link and subsequent link that currently point to the fork should be valid

Entrypoints are registered in the package's setup configuration.  

Here is an example of the schemaspace entrypoints defined in Elyra:
```
entry_points={
  'metadata.schemaspaces': [
    'runtimes = elyra.metadata.schemaspaces:Runtimes',
    'runtimes-images = elyra.metadata.schemaspaces:RuntimeImages',
    'code-snippets = elyra.metadata.schemaspaces:CodeSnippets',
    'component-registries = elyra.metadata.schemaspaces:ComponentRegistries'
  ]
}
```
As you can see, each entry has a _name_ that equates to a module and object/class.

### SchemasProvider
As mentioned above, `Schemaspace` instances do not know their set of schemas at the time of their construction.  Instead, the `SchemaManager` loads a different entrypoints group following the loading of schemaspaces named `'metadata.schemas_providers'`.  These entrypoints identify a `SchemasProvider` object and this object is responsible for returning schemas when called upon by the `SchemaManager`.

> `SchemasProvider` instances are concrete instances of the abstract base class `SchemasProvider`.  The class is really quite simple:

Reviewer: Can you reword this (`really quite simple`) please so this does not come across as judgemental?

```python
class SchemasProvider(ABC):
    """Abstract base class used to obtain schema definitions from registered schema providers."""

    @abstractmethod
    def get_schemas(self) -> List[Dict]:
        """Returns a list of schemas"""
        pass
```
When called, the `SchemasProvider` instance is responsible for producing a list of schemas.  These schemas must conform to the metadata service's _meta-schema_ and, as a result, will include the schemaspace name and schemaspace id to which they correspond, in addition to a `name` property representing that schema's name.  The `SchemaManager` uses this meta-information to confirm the schemaspace has been loaded and register that schema with the schemaspace following its successful validation against the meta-schema.

> Some SchemasProviders may have schema information which is dynamic, based on the active configuration of the system.  In such cases, they are responsible for returning information pertinent to the current configuration.  For example, the _component-registry_ schema (of the _component-registries_ schemaspace) includes an enumerated property named `runtime`.  However, the values/choices included in the `enum` are a function of what packages are configured.  As a result, the `get_schemas()` method for the _component-registries_ `SchemasProvider` determines, based on installed packages, which entries to add to the `runtime` enumeration.

Reviewer: Missing markdown

```suggestion
Some `SchemasProvider`s may have schema information which is dynamic, based on the active configuration of the system.  In such cases, they are responsible for returning information pertinent to the current configuration.  For example, the _component-registry_ schema (of the _component-registries_ schemaspace) includes an enumerated property named `runtime`.  However, the values/choices included in the `enum` are a function of what packages are configured.  As a result, the `get_schemas()` method for the _component-registries_ `SchemasProvider` determines, based on installed packages, which entries to add to the `runtime` enumeration.
```

Reviewer 2: Rather than have the 's' in another font, I think using "`SchemasProvider` instances" may render better.

#### Registration
Like `Schemaspaces`, `SchemasProviders` are discovered via the entrypoints functionality.  When the `SchemaManager` starts, and after it loads all `Schemaspaces`, it fetches all entrypoint instances named by the group `'metadata.schemas_providers'`, and uses the entrypoint data to load each found instance.

Here is an example of the schemas_providers entrypoints defined in Elyra:
```
entry_points={
  'metadata.schemas_providers': [
    'runtimes = elyra.metadata.schemasproviders:RuntimesSchemas',
    'runtimes-images = elyra.metadata.schemasproviders:RuntimeImagesSchemas',
    'code-snippets = elyra.metadata.schemasproviders:CodeSnippetsSchemas',
    'component-registries = elyra.metadata.schemasproviders:ComponentRegistriesSchemas'  ]
}
```
## Implementing Custom Metadata Classes

> Another area within the metadata service applications can influence behavior is by introducing their own sublcass of `Metadata` to wrap instance data.  When this is done, those implementations will be called prior to and after any create, update and delete operations, in addition to following any load (get) operations.  As a result, applications can influence what is persisted and what is retrieved.

Reviewer 2: Good catch - I agree and will update relative to your suggestion.

Thank you for so thoroughly putting this through its paces - that is greatly appreciated!

It should be noted that any exceptions raised from the method overrides will affect the overall operation.  This may be warranted in some cases in which the application finds some invariant condition violations, perhaps those that can't be expressed in the schema, in which the operation should be terminated.  If the exceptions are raised in either `post_save()` or `post_delete()`, the `MetadataManager` will also apply a _compensating transaction_ corresponding to the current operation.  For example, if an instance is being created and the `post_save()` method raises an exception, the `MetadataManager` will apply a compensating transaction that _deletes_ the newly-created instance.

#### Registration

> Unlike `Schemaspaces` and `SchemasProviders`, metadata class overrides are registered within their respective schema file via the `metadata_class_name` property.  The value of this property denotes the dotted notation corresponding to the location of the implementation, the hosting package of which must be installed and locatable.  (Note that someday, we may choose to change this value to be an entrypoint name of a well-documented entrypoint group.  In such cases, the value would not be "dotted" and, therefore, backwards compatible with the current approach.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike `Schemaspaces` and `SchemasProvider`s, metadata class overrides are registered within their respective schema file via the `metadata_class_name` property.  The value of this property denotes the dotted notation corresponding to the location of the implementation, the hosting package of which must be installed and locatable.  (Note that someday, we may choose to change this value to be an entrypoint name of a well-documented entrypoint group.  In such cases, the value would not be "dotted" and, therefore, backwards compatible with the current approach.)
```
